[DOCS] Adds the structure of the ES|QL docs (#789)
elastic/elasticsearch-java: docs/usage/esql.asciidoc

[[esql]]
=== ES|QL in the Java client

> This page enables you to understand and use {ref}/esql.html[ES|QL] utilizing the

Author: ```suggestion
This page enables you to understand and use {ref}/esql.html[ES|QL] in the
```

Java client.

[discrete]
[[esql-how-to]]
==== How to use the ES|QL API

> [TO DO]

Reviewer: Something like:

> The {es-docs}/esql-query-api.html[ES|QL query API] allows you to choose how results should be returned. This includes the {es-docs}/esql-rest.html#esql-rest-format[response format] such as CSV, text or JSON, which can be further fine-tuned with parameters such as column separators or locale.
>
> Since the response format varies widely depending on the chosen format, the {java-client) as a `BinaryData` object, which you can then use according to the format chosen in the request.
>
> The example below shows how to get ES|QL results as CSV and parse them:
>
> [[ Code example to be written ]]

> // This section describes the use of the "raw" ES|QL API.

Author: Thanks, it's a comment specifically to Sylvain to describe what should be the content of the section.

[discrete]
[[esql-consume-results]]

> ==== Consuming ES|QL results

Author: ```suggestion
==== Consume ES|QL results
```

> ==== Consuming ES|QL results

Reviewer 2: Should "Consuming" be "Consume" instead, according to our [WIP style guidelines about gerunds in headings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LXtIbBP4f64IlivFSorPqxFzSa0cwpfRDy7-2zUkgSw/edit#heading=h.silftn4u1x6v)? Not sure.

Applies to the "Defining" heading on line 29 too.

> [TO DO]

Reviewer: Something like:

> The previous example showed that while using the raw ES|QL API gives maximum flexibility, it is low level and requires quite some work to make use of the result data.
>
> To simplify things, we have identified three main ways to represent ES|QL results and provide mapping helpers for each of them:
> - Objects, where each row in the results is mapped to an object from your application domain. This is similar to what ORMs (object relational mappers) commonly do.
> - Cursors, where you scan the results row by row and access the data using column names. This is similar to database access libraries.
> - Dataframes, where results are organized in a column-oriented structure that allows efficient processing of column data.
>
> [[ Code examples to be written for each of them, depending on availability in the language ]]

// This section demonstrates the various ways to consume ES|QL results (Object,
// Cursor, DataFrame, etc.).

[discrete]
[[esql-custom-mapping]]

> ==== Defining your own mapping

Author: ```suggestion
==== Define your own mapping
```

> [TO DO]

Reviewer: Something like:

> While the mappers provided by the {java-client} cover many use cases, your application may require some specific mapping not covered by the provided mappers. You can write your own mapper and used it in a similar way as the built-in ones.
>
> Note that mappers are meant to provide a more usable representation of ES|QL results, and not to process the result data. Data processing should be based on the output of a result mapper.
>
> As an example, let's write a mapper that returns a simple column-oriented representation of the data:

[[ Code example to be written ]]

[[esql]]
=== ES|QL in the Java client

This page enables you to understand and use {ref}/esql.html[ES|QL] in the

> Java client.

Reviewer 2: Should this be {java-client} instead? Not sure -- it's kind of nice to not have it exactly the same way every time :)

> There are two ways to use ES|QL in the {java-client):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways to use ES|QL in the {java-client}:
```

* by using the Elasticsearch {es-docs}/esql-apis.html[ES|QL API] directly. This
is the most flexible approach, but also the most complex since you must handle
results in their raw form. You can also choose the precise format of results,
such as JSON, CSV or text.
* by using ES|QL mapping helpers. These mappers take care of parsing the raw
response into something readily usable by the application. Several mappers are
available that are suited to different use cases such as object mapping, cursor
traversal of results or dataframes. You can also define your own for specific
use cases.

[discrete]
[[esql-how-to]]
==== How to use the ES|QL API

The {es-docs}/esql-query-api.html[ES|QL query API] allows you to choose how
results should be returned. This includes the 
{es-docs}/esql-rest.html#esql-rest-format[response format] such as CSV, text or
JSON, which can be further fine-tuned with parameters such as column separators
or locale.

> Since the response format varies widely depending on the chosen format, the
> {java-client) as a BinaryData object, which you can then use according to the
> format chosen in the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the response varies widely depending on the format, the
{java-client} has a BinaryData object you can use according to the
format specified in the request.
```

Reviewer 2: Seemed like there were typos here:
`{java-client) as`

But I'm not sure this paragraph is clear enough in general yet. I'm sure we can refine it as we go.

> The example below shows how to get ES|QL results as CSV and parse them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example gets ES|QL results as CSV and parses them:
```

// Code example to be written

[discrete]
[[esql-consume-results]]
==== Consume ES|QL results

The previous example showed that while using the raw ES|QL API gives maximum
flexibility, it is low level and requires quite some work to make use of the
result data.

> To simplify things, we have identified three main ways to represent ES|QL
> results and provide mapping helpers for each of them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To simplify things, try working with these three main representations of ES|QL
results (each with its own mapping helper):
```

Reviewer 2: Another option: instead of the parenthetical I added:
`(each with its own mapping helper)`

... you could just add a simple sentence after the bulleted list, something like:
`A mapping helper is provided for each of these.`

> * Objects, where each row in the results is mapped to an object from your

Reviewer 2: I'd probably make each of these bold (Objects, Cursors, Dataframes) but not sure we typically do that sort of thing.

Author: Yes, let's do that!

> * Objects, where each row in the results is mapped to an object from your
> application domain. This is similar to what ORMs (object relational mappers)
> commonly do.
> * Cursors, where you scan the results row by row and access the data using
> column names. This is similar to database access libraries.
> * Dataframes, where results are organized in a column-oriented structure that
> allows efficient processing of column data.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Objects**, where each row in the results is mapped to an object from your
application domain. This is similar to what ORMs (object relational mappers)
commonly do.
* **Cursors**, where you scan the results row by row and access the data using
column names. This is similar to database access libraries.
* **Dataframes**, where results are organized in a column-oriented structure that
allows efficient processing of column data.
```

// Code examples to be written for each of them, depending on availability in the language

[discrete]
[[esql-custom-mapping]]
==== Define your own mapping

> While the mappers provided by the {java-client} cover many use cases, your
> application may require some specific mapping not covered by the provided
> mappers. You can write your own mapper and used it in a similar way as the
> built-in ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the mappers provided by the {java-client} cover many use cases, your
application might require a custom mapping.
You can write your own mapper and use it in a similar way as the
built-in ones.
```
